README.md, before:

## Stripped Down version of HaMeR

I needed a version that can detect handshapes properly, as I used [Mediapipe](https://ai.google.dev/edge/mediapipe/solutions/guide) but it didn't suit my needs. So I searched something else and found [HaMeR](https://github.com/geopavlakos/hamer.git) ... I don't need multiple person detection nor the fancy handshape rendering. Only thing i need are the MANO joints. So I decided to strip down the whole thing and remove the unneeded stuff. For Hand detection I still use Mediapipe and afterwards let HaMeR detect the more precise keypoints. My initial tests seemed very promising so I try to make a smaller package out of it. Thanks also to the amazing docker image provided by https://github.com/chaitanya1chawla/hamer.git which allowed me to test the framework and decide what is possible to remove. I also removed the dependencies to the detectron2 framework as well VitPose stuff (as I just need hand inference).

You can use this module after installation, but be aware you need the checkpoint somewhere... Therefore you should edit `CACHE_DIR_HAMER = "./hamer_ckpt/_DATA"` in `hamer/configs/__init__.py` to the location where the ckpt file is. I prepared a repository with the structure for the _DATA folder ([here](https://github.com/Schmetzler/hamer_ckpt.git)). It contains the configuration and a link to the checkpoint file in the README, but you can also find it [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1hfLQhse5DP460Q-j0d-vG_obCVIsc9Bt?usp=sharing). ~~It uses git-lfs because the checkpoint file is really large and I also had to split it into 2 files so you have to unpack it after cloning the repo (see README.md of the repo).~~ You should also download the mano files from https://mano.is.tue.mpg.de/ and put it into `CACHE_DIR_HAMER/data/`. See README of [hamer_ckpt](https://github.com/Schmetzler/hamer_ckpt.git).

I also included the [hand_landmarker.task](https://storage.googleapis.com/mediapipe-models/hand_landmarker/hand_landmarker/float16/latest/hand_landmarker.task) and [pose_landmarker_lite.task](https://storage.googleapis.com/mediapipe-models/pose_landmarker/pose_landmarker_lite/float16/latest/pose_landmarker_lite.task) from Mediapipe.

To use it as a module:
```python
# to change the CACHE_DIR_HAMER variable import configs first
import hamer.configs as hcfg
hcfg.CACHE_DIR_HAMER = "./hamer_ckpt/_DATA"

from hamer.hamer_module import HAMER
import cv2

# possible modes are "VIDEO" and "IMAGE" and device can be "cpu" or depending on your torch installation "cuda" or something else
hamer = HAMER(mode="IMAGE", device="cpu")
img = cv2.imread("img.png")

# keypoints and bboxes are dictionaries with keys "Right" and "Left" if present
# the image should be in OpenCVs BGR color format
keypoints, bboxes = hamer.process(img)

# you can also use the other outputs of the hamer algorithm, they are stored in the class object
res = hamer.result
# look at the code of hamer/models/hamer.py --> forward_step to check the possible dictionary keys
```

### Some notes about usage

* I added both the hand_landmarker and the pose_landmarker for bounding box detection. If the hand_landmarker cannot find a hand it falls back to the pose_landmarker. You can adjust this and use only one of the tasks
* I also added a bounding box only mode... maybe useful for testing purposes

```python
from hamer.hamer_module import HAMER, hand_path, pose_path
# to use only hand_landmarker
hamer = HAMER(task_paths={"hand": hand_path})
# to use only pose_landmarker
hamer = HAMER(task_paths={"pose": pose_path})
# to use the bounding box only mode
_, bboxes = hamer.process(img, bbox_only=True)
```

### Issues

I had an issue importing the `hamer_module` under special unknown circumstances. The error said something about unsafe globals. I found a solution which allowed me to import this module:

```python
import torch
import yacs.config
torch.serialization.add_safe_globals([yacs.config.CfgNode])
# import hamer.configs and hamer_module as usual
```

Now the original README:

# HaMeR: Hand Mesh Recovery
Code repository for the paper:
**Reconstructing Hands in 3D with Transformers**

[Georgios Pavlakos](https://geopavlakos.github.io/), [Dandan Shan](https://ddshan.github.io/), [Ilija Radosavovic](https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~ilija/), [Angjoo Kanazawa](https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~kanazawa/), [David Fouhey](https://cs.nyu.edu/~fouhey/), [Jitendra Malik](http://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~malik/)

[![arXiv](https://img.shields.io/badge/arXiv-2312.05251-00ff00.svg)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2312.05251.pdf)  [![Website shields.io](https://img.shields.io/website-up-down-green-red/http/shields.io.svg)](https://geopavlakos.github.io/hamer/)     [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1rQbQzegFWGVOm1n1d-S6koOWDo7F2ucu?usp=sharing)  [![Hugging Face Spaces](https://img.shields.io/badge/%F0%9F%A4%97%20Hugging%20Face-Spaces-blue)](https://huggingface.co/spaces/geopavlakos/HaMeR)

![teaser](assets/teaser.jpg)

## News

- [2024/06] HaMeR received the 2nd place award in the Ego-Pose Hands task of the Ego-Exo4D Challenge! Please check the [validation report](https://www.cs.utexas.edu/~pavlakos/hamer/resources/egoexo4d_challenge.pdf).
- [2024/05] We have released the evaluation pipeline!
- [2024/05] We have released the HInt dataset annotations! Please check [here](https://github.com/ddshan/hint).
- [2023/12] Original release!

## Installation
First you need to clone the repo:
```
git clone --recursive https://github.com/geopavlakos/hamer.git
cd hamer
```

We recommend creating a virtual environment for HaMeR. You can use venv:
```bash
python3.10 -m venv .hamer
source .hamer/bin/activate
```

or alternatively conda:
```bash
conda create --name hamer python=3.10
conda activate hamer
```

Then, you can install the rest of the dependencies. This is for CUDA 11.7, but you can adapt accordingly:
```bash
pip install torch torchvision --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu117
pip install -e .[all]
pip install -v -e third-party/ViTPose
```

You also need to download the trained models:
```bash
bash fetch_demo_data.sh
```

Besides these files, you also need to download the MANO model. Please visit the [MANO website](https://mano.is.tue.mpg.de) and register to get access to the downloads section.  We only require the right hand model. You need to put `MANO_RIGHT.pkl` under the `_DATA/data/mano` folder.

### Docker Compose

If you wish to use HaMeR with Docker, you can use the following command:

```
docker compose -f ./docker/docker-compose.yml up -d
```

After the image is built successfully, enter the container and run the steps as above:

```
docker compose -f ./docker/docker-compose.yml exec hamer-dev /bin/bash
```

Continue with the installation steps:

```bash
bash fetch_demo_data.sh
```

## Demo
```bash
python demo.py \
    --img_folder example_data --out_folder demo_out \
    --batch_size=48 --side_view --save_mesh --full_frame
```

## HInt Dataset
We have released the annotations for the HInt dataset. Please follow the instructions [here](https://github.com/ddshan/hint)

## Training
First, download the training data to `./hamer_training_data/` by running:
```
bash fetch_training_data.sh
```

Then you can start training using the following command:
```
python train.py exp_name=hamer data=mix_all experiment=hamer_vit_transformer trainer=gpu launcher=local
```
Checkpoints and logs will be saved to `./logs/`.

## Evaluation
Download the [evaluation metadata](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/7ip2vnnu355e2kqbyn1bc/hamer_evaluation_data.tar.gz?rlkey=nb4x10uc8mj2qlfq934t5mdlh) to `./hamer_evaluation_data/`. Additionally, download the FreiHAND, HO-3D, and HInt dataset images and update the corresponding paths in  `hamer/configs/datasets_eval.yaml`.

Run evaluation on multiple datasets as follows, results are stored in `results/eval_regression.csv`. 
```bash
python eval.py --dataset 'FREIHAND-VAL,HO3D-VAL,NEWDAYS-TEST-ALL,NEWDAYS-TEST-VIS,NEWDAYS-TEST-OCC,EPICK-TEST-ALL,EPICK-TEST-VIS,EPICK-TEST-OCC,EGO4D-TEST-ALL,EGO4D-TEST-VIS,EGO4D-TEST-OCC'
```

Results for HInt are stored in `results/eval_regression.csv`. For [FreiHAND](https://github.com/lmb-freiburg/freihand) and [HO-3D](https://codalab.lisn.upsaclay.fr/competitions/4318) you get as output a `.json` file that can be used for evaluation using their corresponding evaluation processes.

## Acknowledgements
Parts of the code are taken or adapted from the following repos:
- [4DHumans](https://github.com/shubham-goel/4D-Humans)
- [SLAHMR](https://github.com/vye16/slahmr)
- [ProHMR](https://github.com/nkolot/ProHMR)
- [SPIN](https://github.com/nkolot/SPIN)
- [SMPLify-X](https://github.com/vchoutas/smplify-x)
- [HMR](https://github.com/akanazawa/hmr)
- [ViTPose](https://github.com/ViTAE-Transformer/ViTPose)
- [Detectron2](https://github.com/facebookresearch/detectron2)

Additionally, we thank [StabilityAI](https://stability.ai/) for a generous compute grant that enabled this work.

## Citing
If you find this code useful for your research, please consider citing the following paper:

```bibtex
@inproceedings{pavlakos2024reconstructing,
    title={Reconstructing Hands in 3{D} with Transformers},
    author={Pavlakos, Georgios and Shan, Dandan and Radosavovic, Ilija and Kanazawa, Angjoo and Fouhey, David and Malik, Jitendra},
    booktitle={CVPR},
    year={2024}
}
```

Commit message:

process is now bbox detector agnostic, but a function to use mediapipe explicitly is provided

README.md, after:

## Stripped Down version of HaMeR

I needed a version that can detect handshapes properly, as I used [Mediapipe](https://ai.google.dev/edge/mediapipe/solutions/guide) but it didn't suit my needs. So I searched something else and found [HaMeR](https://github.com/geopavlakos/hamer.git) ... I don't need multiple person detection nor the fancy handshape rendering. Only thing i need are the MANO joints. So I decided to strip down the whole thing and remove the unneeded stuff. For Hand detection I still use Mediapipe and afterwards let HaMeR detect the more precise keypoints. My initial tests seemed very promising so I try to make a smaller package out of it. Thanks also to the amazing docker image provided by https://github.com/chaitanya1chawla/hamer.git which allowed me to test the framework and decide what is possible to remove. I also removed the dependencies to the detectron2 framework as well VitPose stuff (as I just need hand inference).

You can use this module after installation, but be aware you need the checkpoint somewhere... Therefore you should edit `CACHE_DIR_HAMER = "./hamer_ckpt/_DATA"` in `hamer/configs/__init__.py` to the location where the ckpt file is. I prepared a repository with the structure for the _DATA folder ([here](https://github.com/Schmetzler/hamer_ckpt.git)). It contains the configuration and a link to the checkpoint file in the README, but you can also find it [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1hfLQhse5DP460Q-j0d-vG_obCVIsc9Bt?usp=sharing). ~~It uses git-lfs because the checkpoint file is really large and I also had to split it into 2 files so you have to unpack it after cloning the repo (see README.md of the repo).~~ You should also download the mano files from https://mano.is.tue.mpg.de/ and put it into `CACHE_DIR_HAMER/data/`. See README of [hamer_ckpt](https://github.com/Schmetzler/hamer_ckpt.git).

I also included the [hand_landmarker.task](https://storage.googleapis.com/mediapipe-models/hand_landmarker/hand_landmarker/float16/latest/hand_landmarker.task) and [pose_landmarker_lite.task](https://storage.googleapis.com/mediapipe-models/pose_landmarker/pose_landmarker_lite/float16/latest/pose_landmarker_lite.task) from Mediapipe.

To use it as a module:
```python
# to change the CACHE_DIR_HAMER variable import configs first
import hamer.configs as hcfg
hcfg.CACHE_DIR_HAMER = "./hamer_ckpt/_DATA"

from hamer.hamer_module import HAMER
import cv2

# possible modes are "VIDEO" and "IMAGE" and device can be "cpu" or depending on your torch installation "cuda" or something else
hamer = HAMER(mode="IMAGE", device="cpu")
img = cv2.imread("img.png")

# keypoints and bboxes are dictionaries with keys "Right" and "Left" if present
# the image should be in OpenCVs BGR color format
keypoints, bboxes = hamer.process_with_mediapipe(img)

# you can also use the other outputs of the hamer algorithm, they are stored in the class object
res = hamer.result
# when processing with mediapipe the mediapipe keypoints are stored in hamer.result["mp_kpts"]
# look at the code of hamer/models/hamer.py --> forward_step to check the possible dictionary keys

```

### Some notes about usage

* If you want to use another hand bbox detector you can do so and just call `process` with the calculated bboxes in the format `{"Right": bbox_xyxy, "Left": bbox_xyxy}`
* I added both the hand_landmarker and the pose_landmarker for bounding box detection. If the hand_landmarker cannot find a hand it falls back to the pose_landmarker. You can adjust this and use only one of the tasks
* I also added a bounding box only mode... maybe useful for testing purposes

```python
from hamer.hamer_module import HAMER, hand_path, pose_path
# to use only hand_landmarker
hamer = HAMER(task_paths={"hand": hand_path})
# to use only pose_landmarker
hamer = HAMER(task_paths={"pose": pose_path})
# to use the bounding box only mode
_, bboxes = hamer.process_with_mediapipe(img, bbox_only=True)
```

### Issues

I had an issue importing the `hamer_module` under special unknown circumstances. The error said something about unsafe globals. I found a solution which allowed me to import this module:

```python
import torch
import yacs.config
torch.serialization.add_safe_globals([yacs.config.CfgNode])
# import hamer.configs and hamer_module as usual
```

Now the original README:

# HaMeR: Hand Mesh Recovery
Code repository for the paper:
**Reconstructing Hands in 3D with Transformers**

[Georgios Pavlakos](https://geopavlakos.github.io/), [Dandan Shan](https://ddshan.github.io/), [Ilija Radosavovic](https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~ilija/), [Angjoo Kanazawa](https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~kanazawa/), [David Fouhey](https://cs.nyu.edu/~fouhey/), [Jitendra Malik](http://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~malik/)

[![arXiv](https://img.shields.io/badge/arXiv-2312.05251-00ff00.svg)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2312.05251.pdf)  [![Website shields.io](https://img.shields.io/website-up-down-green-red/http/shields.io.svg)](https://geopavlakos.github.io/hamer/)     [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1rQbQzegFWGVOm1n1d-S6koOWDo7F2ucu?usp=sharing)  [![Hugging Face Spaces](https://img.shields.io/badge/%F0%9F%A4%97%20Hugging%20Face-Spaces-blue)](https://huggingface.co/spaces/geopavlakos/HaMeR)

![teaser](assets/teaser.jpg)

## News

- [2024/06] HaMeR received the 2nd place award in the Ego-Pose Hands task of the Ego-Exo4D Challenge! Please check the [validation report](https://www.cs.utexas.edu/~pavlakos/hamer/resources/egoexo4d_challenge.pdf).
- [2024/05] We have released the evaluation pipeline!
- [2024/05] We have released the HInt dataset annotations! Please check [here](https://github.com/ddshan/hint).
- [2023/12] Original release!

## Installation
First you need to clone the repo:
```
git clone --recursive https://github.com/geopavlakos/hamer.git
cd hamer
```

We recommend creating a virtual environment for HaMeR. You can use venv:
```bash
python3.10 -m venv .hamer
source .hamer/bin/activate
```

or alternatively conda:
```bash
conda create --name hamer python=3.10
conda activate hamer
```

Then, you can install the rest of the dependencies. This is for CUDA 11.7, but you can adapt accordingly:
```bash
pip install torch torchvision --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu117
pip install -e .[all]
pip install -v -e third-party/ViTPose
```

You also need to download the trained models:
```bash
bash fetch_demo_data.sh
```

Besides these files, you also need to download the MANO model. Please visit the [MANO website](https://mano.is.tue.mpg.de) and register to get access to the downloads section.  We only require the right hand model. You need to put `MANO_RIGHT.pkl` under the `_DATA/data/mano` folder.

### Docker Compose

If you wish to use HaMeR with Docker, you can use the following command:

```
docker compose -f ./docker/docker-compose.yml up -d
```

After the image is built successfully, enter the container and run the steps as above:

```
docker compose -f ./docker/docker-compose.yml exec hamer-dev /bin/bash
```

Continue with the installation steps:

```bash
bash fetch_demo_data.sh
```

## Demo
```bash
python demo.py \
    --img_folder example_data --out_folder demo_out \
    --batch_size=48 --side_view --save_mesh --full_frame
```

## HInt Dataset
We have released the annotations for the HInt dataset. Please follow the instructions [here](https://github.com/ddshan/hint)

## Training
First, download the training data to `./hamer_training_data/` by running:
```
bash fetch_training_data.sh
```

Then you can start training using the following command:
```
python train.py exp_name=hamer data=mix_all experiment=hamer_vit_transformer trainer=gpu launcher=local
```
Checkpoints and logs will be saved to `./logs/`.

## Evaluation
Download the [evaluation metadata](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/7ip2vnnu355e2kqbyn1bc/hamer_evaluation_data.tar.gz?rlkey=nb4x10uc8mj2qlfq934t5mdlh) to `./hamer_evaluation_data/`. Additionally, download the FreiHAND, HO-3D, and HInt dataset images and update the corresponding paths in  `hamer/configs/datasets_eval.yaml`.

Run evaluation on multiple datasets as follows, results are stored in `results/eval_regression.csv`. 
```bash
python eval.py --dataset 'FREIHAND-VAL,HO3D-VAL,NEWDAYS-TEST-ALL,NEWDAYS-TEST-VIS,NEWDAYS-TEST-OCC,EPICK-TEST-ALL,EPICK-TEST-VIS,EPICK-TEST-OCC,EGO4D-TEST-ALL,EGO4D-TEST-VIS,EGO4D-TEST-OCC'
```

Results for HInt are stored in `results/eval_regression.csv`. For [FreiHAND](https://github.com/lmb-freiburg/freihand) and [HO-3D](https://codalab.lisn.upsaclay.fr/competitions/4318) you get as output a `.json` file that can be used for evaluation using their corresponding evaluation processes.

## Acknowledgements
Parts of the code are taken or adapted from the following repos:
- [4DHumans](https://github.com/shubham-goel/4D-Humans)
- [SLAHMR](https://github.com/vye16/slahmr)
- [ProHMR](https://github.com/nkolot/ProHMR)
- [SPIN](https://github.com/nkolot/SPIN)
- [SMPLify-X](https://github.com/vchoutas/smplify-x)
- [HMR](https://github.com/akanazawa/hmr)
- [ViTPose](https://github.com/ViTAE-Transformer/ViTPose)
- [Detectron2](https://github.com/facebookresearch/detectron2)

Additionally, we thank [StabilityAI](https://stability.ai/) for a generous compute grant that enabled this work.

## Citing
If you find this code useful for your research, please consider citing the following paper:

```bibtex
@inproceedings{pavlakos2024reconstructing,
    title={Reconstructing Hands in 3{D} with Transformers},
    author={Pavlakos, Georgios and Shan, Dandan and Radosavovic, Ilija and Kanazawa, Angjoo and Fouhey, David and Malik, Jitendra},
    booktitle={CVPR},
    year={2024}
}
```
